Dependency Injection (DI):

Constructor Injection: Dependencies are provided to a class through its constructor.
Setter Injection: Dependencies are set via setter methods on the class.
Field Injection: Dependencies are directly injected into public fields of the class.


Instead of creating and managing their dependencies internally, beans declare their dependencies through constructor injection, setter injection, or field injection. This allows the container to inject the required dependencies into the bean at runtime, reducing the bean's direct dependency on specific implementations.


 Instead of a component creating its dependencies directly using the new keyword or a factory method, it relies on an external entity to provide those dependencies. This external entity is often referred to as an IoC container or framework.

IoC is commonly implemented using techniques such as Dependency Injection (DI), where dependencies are "injected" into a component from the outside

Application context It provides a way to access application components, such as beans, and wire them together using dependency injection.

BeanFactory is the simplest container provided by Spring for managing beans. It focuses on basic bean instantiation, configuration, and lifecycle management.

ad "main" org.springframework.beans.factory.NoSuchBeanDefinitionException: No bean named 'hm' available



If you're using Java configuration (using annotations such as @Component, @Service, @Repository, etc.), then by default, Spring will generate a bean name based on the class name with the initial letter converted to lowercase. 

You are correct. In Spring Framework, @Bean is a method-level annotation used to declare a bean 

Class-Level Annotations:
@Component:

Indicates that the class is a Spring-managed component.
Spring will automatically detect and instantiate beans marked with this annotation during component scanning.
@Service:

Indicates that the class is a service component.
Often used to mark service layer classes.
@Repository:

Indicates that the class is a repository component.
Typically used to mark classes that access the database.
@Controller:

Indicates that the class is a controller component.
Used in Spring MVC to mark classes that handle HTTP requests.
@Configuration:


METHOD LEVEL

Indicates that the class provides bean definitions.
Used in conjunction with @Bean methods to define beans in Java-based configuration.
Method-Level Annotations:
@Autowired:

Marks a constructor, field, or setter method for automatic dependency injection.
Used to inject beans into other beans.
@RequestMapping:

Specifies the URL mapping for a method within a controller.
Used in Spring MVC to map HTTP requests to specific controller methods.

mvn dependency:tree


mvn test-compile test

When the Spring container starts up, it reads these XML files and instantiates the beans accordingly.



The @Bean annotation in Spring is used at the method level within @Configuration-annotated classes to declare a Spring bean. When Spring scans such a class, it recognizes methods annotated with @Bean and registers the return value of those methods as beans within the Spring application context.



In Spring Framework's XML configuration, objects (beans) get created when the Spring container initializes and processes the XML configuration file. This typically occurs when your Spring application starts up.

Here's how it works:

Application Startup: When your Spring application starts up, the Spring container initializes. This initialization process involves loading the application context, which includes reading and parsing the XML configuration files.

Parsing XML Configuration: The Spring container parses the XML configuration files, which contain bean definitions. These bean definitions specify the beans to be created and configured by the container.

Bean Instantiation:On encountering For each bean definition in the XML configuration file, the Spring container instantiates the corresponding bean objects. It uses reflection to create instances of the specified classes.

Dependency Injection: Once the beans are instantiated, the Spring container performs dependency injection, injecting any dependencies required by the beans. Dependencies can be specified using constructor injection, setter injection, or field injection, depending on the configuration.

Bean Lifecycle Methods: If the beans have lifecycle callbacks such as init-method and destroy-method, the Spring container invokes these methods on the bean instances after instantiation and before destruction, respectively.

Bean Registration: Finally, the instantiated beans are registered within the Spring application context. This makes them accessible for other beans to reference and use throughout the application.





In Spring Framework, autowiring is a feature that allows Spring to automatically inject dependencies into beans without explicitly specifying them in the XML configuration or Java code. Autowiring simplifies the process of dependency injection by automatically resolving dependencies based on certain rules.






When you run this method, Spring Boot will perform several tasks, including setting up the application context, scanning for components and beans, configuring the application based on various annotations and configuration files, and starting the embedded web server (if the application is a web application). Finally, it will wait for the application to finish executing or be stopped.



@Configuration: Indicates that the class can be used by the Spring IoC container as a source of bean definitions.

@EnableAutoConfiguration: Enables Spring Boot's auto-configuration mechanism, which automatically configures the Spring application based on its dependencies and the environment.

@ComponentScan: Tells Spring to scan the current package and all of its sub-packages for components (such as beans, controllers, services, etc.) to include in the application context.














Lazy initialization in Spring works by postponing the creation of a bean until it's actually needed. When a bean is marked as lazy-initialized, Spring will defer the instantiation of that bean until the first time it's requested by another bean or by the application context.

Here's how it works under the hood:

Bean Definition: When you define a bean in Spring, either through XML configuration or using Java configuration (@Bean methods), you can mark that bean as lazy by applying the @Lazy annotation.

Bean Registration: When the Spring container starts up, it scans for bean definitions and registers them with the application context. Beans marked as lazy are registered as usual, but their instantiation is deferred.

Bean Instantiation: When another bean or a component requests a lazy-initialized bean, Spring checks if the bean has already been instantiated. If not, it instantiates the bean on-demand and returns the instance.

Singleton Scope: It's important to note that lazy initialization is only applicable to singleton-scoped beans by default. Beans in other scopes (like prototype) are always lazily initialized because they are created whenever requested.

Proxy Mechanism: Under the hood, Spring typically creates a proxy for lazy-initialized beans. When another bean requests the lazy bean, the proxy intercepts the request and triggers the actual instantiation of the target bean.

Resource Optimization: Lazy initialization can help improve the startup time and reduce memory consumption of the application, especially when dealing with large or resource-intensive beans. It ensures that beans are created only when needed, rather than upfront during the application startup process.

Overall, lazy initialization is a useful feature provided by Spring to optimize resource usage and improve the performance of your applications
